EZEE-2911 Site Factory (#991)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/site_factory.md

There, you should be able to add a new site and choose a design for it.

### Define domains 

To be able to see your site online you need to define a domain for it.

In `.env` file change line 2 to: `COMPOSE_FILE=doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml`

Take a look into the `doc/docker/multihost.yml` file. 
Here you will define your domains. 
To add a new domain you must add it in `command:` and under frontend and backend aliases as shown in the example below.

```yaml hl_lines="3 6 11"
services:
  web:
    command: /bin/bash -c "cd /var/www && cp -a doc/nginx/ez_params.d /etc/nginx && bin/vhost.sh --host-name=site.example.com --host-alias='admin.example.com test.example.com' --template-file=doc/nginx/vhost.template > /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf && nginx -g 'daemon off;'"
    networks:
      frontend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com
      backend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com

```

Next, you must define the domains in `etc/hosts`.

```bash
0.0.0.0 site.example.com admin.example.com test.example.com www.admin.example.com

> ```

Reviewer: Please make sure that is clear that this is not a production configuration.

Author: Added warning at the beginning of the section

# Site Factory

Site Factory is site management User Interface, integrated with Admin UI.
 It allows you to configure sites without editing:

- SiteAccess configuration
- multisite configuration
- multisite management

After [clean installation](../getting_started/install_ez_enterprise.md) the Site Factory will be disabled.
This results in the following message on the **Site** tab:
"There is a design configuration error, and you will not be able to create a new site. Please update the configuration."
If you plan to use Site Factory you need to enable and configure it.

To enable or disable Site factory follow respectably:

- [Enable Site Factory section](#enable-site-factory)
- [Disable Site Factory section](#disable-site-factory)

## Enable Site Factory

> To enable Site Factory you need to change enabled to `true` in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/site_factory.yaml`.

Author: It will be change to false, for now it is the only place where you can change it

> To enable Site Factory you need to set `enabled` to `true` in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/site_factory.yaml`.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable Site Factory you need to set `enabled` to `true` in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/settings.yaml`.
```

### Configure designs

> Next you can configure it, add empty SiteAccess groups in `config/packages/ezplatform.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, configure Site Factory by adding empty SiteAccess groups in `config/packages/ezplatform.yaml`:
```

```yaml
ezplatform:
    siteaccess:
        list: [site, pl, de]
        groups:
            site_group: [site, pl, de]
            sf_group_1: []
            sf_group_2: []
            sf_group_3: []
            
    system:
        sf_group_1:
    
        sf_group_2:
    
        sf_group_3:
```

Next, uncomment `'@EzSystems\EzPlatformSiteFactory\SiteAccessMatcher': ~` SiteAccess matcher  in `ezplatform.siteaccess.siteaccess`.
 
Add `ezdesign` configuration and configure designs for empty SiteAccess groups:

```yaml
ezplatform:

...

ezdesign:
    design_list:
        example_1: [example_1_template]
        example_2: [example_2_template]
        
ezpublish:
    system:
        sf_group_1:
            design: example_1
        sf_group_2:
            design: example_2
        sf_group_3:
            design: example_3
```

> The `ezdesign` defines templates for your sites, so remember to add them before continuing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ezdesign` defines templates for your sites, so remember to add them before continuing.
```

### Add templates configuration

Create `config/packages/ez_platform_site_factory.yaml`.
It will connect SiteAccesses with your templates.
Inside add thumbnails and names for your templates:

```yaml
ez_platform_site_factory:
    templates:
        ez_site1:
            siteaccess_group: sf_group_1
            name: example_site_1
            thumbnail: /assets/ezplatform/build/images/example-1-icon.png
        ez_site2:
            siteaccess_group: sf_group_2
            name: example_site_2
            thumbnail: /assets/ezplatform/build/images/example-2-icon.png
```

> ### Define domains 

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth adding that at this point (before adding domains) you can already use/try out site factory in the Back Office?

Author: added in section above

To be able to see your site online you need to define a domain for it.

In `.env` file change line 2 to: `COMPOSE_FILE=doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml`

> Take a look into `doc/docker/multihost.yml` file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Take a look into the `doc/docker/multihost.yml` file. 
```

Here you will define your domains. 
To add a new domain you must add it in `command:` and under frontend and backend aliases.

> ```yaml hl_lines="3 6 11"

Author: yes, this are example domains, they show you where to add your own

services:
  web:
    command: /bin/bash -c "cd /var/www && cp -a doc/nginx/ez_params.d /etc/nginx && bin/vhost.sh --host-name=site.example.com --host-alias='admin.example.com test.example.com' --template-file=doc/nginx/vhost.template > /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf && nginx -g 'daemon off;'"
    networks:
      frontend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com
      backend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com

```

> Next you must defined above domains in `etc/hosts` in a terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you must define the domains in `etc/hosts`.
```

```bash
0.0.0.0 site.example.com admin.example.com test.example.com www.admin.example.com
```

> Then you must run `docker-compose up` command: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then run `docker-compose up`: 
```

```bash
export COMPOSE_FILE="doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml"
docker-compose up
```       

Your sites should be now visible under:

```
http://site.example.com:8080/
http://admin.example.com:8080/
http://localhost:8080/
http://test.example.com:8080/
```

![Site Factory site list](img/site_factory_site_list.png)

## Disable Site Factory

Enabled Site Factory may cause following performance issues:

> - Config Resolver will look for SiteAccesses in data base

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Config Resolver will look for SiteAccesses in the database
```

> - Site Factory matchers will be connected to data base in search for new SiteAccesses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Site Factory matchers will be connected to the database in search for new SiteAccesses
```

You can disable Site Factory to boost Config Resolver performance.
Keep in mind that with disabled Site Factory you will not be able to add new sites.

> 1. In `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/site_factory.yaml` change enabled to `false`

Author: ```suggestion
1. In `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/settings.yaml` change enabled to `false`
```

> 1. In `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/site_factory.yaml` change enabled to `false`

Reviewer 2: As above - in project config?

1. In `config/packages/ezplatform.yaml` comment the `ezplatform.siteaccess.match: '@EzSystems\EzPlatformSiteFactory\SiteAccessMatcher': ~` if it is uncommented.
1. Remove separate connection to database in `config/packages/doctrine.yaml`.

> 1. Remove separate cache poll in `config/packages/cache.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Remove separate cache pool in `config/packages/cache.yaml`.
```

# Site Factory

Site Factory is site management User Interface, integrated with Admin UI.
 It allows you to configure sites without editing:

- SiteAccess configuration
- multisite configuration

After [clean installation](../getting_started/install_ez_enterprise.md) the Site Factory will be disabled.
This results in the following message on the **Site** tab:
"There is a design configuration error, and you will not be able to create a new site. Please update the configuration."
If you plan to use Site Factory you need to enable and configure it.

To enable or disable Site Factory, follow respectively:

- [Enable Site Factory section](#enable-site-factory)
- [Disable Site Factory section](#disable-site-factory)

## Enable Site Factory

To enable Site Factory you need to set `enabled` to `true` in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/settings.yaml`.

### Configure designs

Next, configure Site Factory by adding empty SiteAccess groups in `config/packages/ezplatform.yaml`:

```yaml
ezplatform:
    siteaccess:

>         list: [site, pl, de]

Reviewer 3: By default there is only `site`

        groups:
            site_group: [site, pl, de]

>             sf_group_1: []

Reviewer 3: maybe `site_factory_group_1` or `site_factory_group_A` or even `example_site_factory_group`

Reviewer 3: only one empty group is mandatory

            sf_group_2: []
            sf_group_3: []
            
    system:
        sf_group_1:

>     

Reviewer 3: empty lines are not needed here

        sf_group_2:
    
        sf_group_3:
```

Uncomment the `'@EzSystems\EzPlatformSiteFactory\SiteAccessMatcher': ~` SiteAccess matcher in `ezplatform.siteaccess.match`.
 
Add `ezdesign` configuration and configure designs for empty SiteAccess groups:

```yaml
ezplatform:

...

ezdesign:
    design_list:
        example_1: [example_1_template]
        example_2: [example_2_template]
        
ezpublish:
    system:
        sf_group_1:
            design: example_1
        sf_group_2:
            design: example_2
        sf_group_3:
            design: example_3
```

`ezdesign` defines templates for your sites, so remember to add them before continuing.

### Add templates configuration

Add thumbnails and names for your templates in `config/packages/ez_platform_site_factory.yaml`
It will connect SiteAccesses with the templates.

```yaml
ezplatform_site_factory:
    templates:
        ez_site1:
            siteaccess_group: sf_group_1
            name: example_site_1

>             thumbnail: /assets/ezplatform/build/images/example-1-icon.png

Reviewer 3: those paths to thumbnail should be changed

    networks:
      frontend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com
      backend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com

```

Next, you must define the domains in `etc/hosts`.

```bash
0.0.0.0 site.example.com admin.example.com test.example.com www.admin.example.com
```

Then run `docker-compose up`: 

```bash
export COMPOSE_FILE="doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml"
docker-compose up
```       

Your sites should be now visible under:

```
http://site.example.com:8080/
http://admin.example.com:8080/
http://localhost:8080/
http://test.example.com:8080/
```

![Site Factory site list](img/site_factory_site_list.png)

## Disable Site Factory

Enabled Site Factory may cause following performance issues:

- Config Resolver will look for SiteAccesses in the database
- Site Factory matchers will be connected to the database in search for new SiteAccesses

You can disable Site Factory to boost Config Resolver performance.

> Keep in mind that with disabled Site Factory you will not be able to add new sites.

Reviewer 3: or use existing sites

# Site Factory

> Site Factory is site management User Interface, integrated with Admin UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Site Factory is a site management User Interface, integrated with Admin UI.
```

>  It allows you to configure sites without editing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It enables you to configure sites without editing:
```

- SiteAccess configuration
- multisite configuration

After [clean installation](../getting_started/install_ez_enterprise.md) the Site Factory will be disabled.
This results in the following message on the **Site** tab:
"There is a design configuration error, and you will not be able to create a new site. Please update the configuration."
If you plan to use Site Factory you need to enable and configure it.

To enable or disable Site Factory, follow respectively:

- [Enable Site Factory section](#enable-site-factory)
- [Disable Site Factory section](#disable-site-factory)

## Enable Site Factory

To enable Site Factory you need to set `enabled` to `true` in `vendor/ezsystems/ezplatform-site-factory/src/bundle/Resources/config/settings.yaml`.

### Configure designs

Next, configure Site Factory by adding empty SiteAccess groups, only one empty group is mandatory.

> Under this group you will be able to configure all settings, which do not expose UI e.g. Content view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under this group you will be able to configure all settings which do not expose UI, e.g. Content view.
```

        example_2: [example_2_template]
        
ezpublish:
    system:
        example_site_factory_group_1:
            design: example_1
        example_site_factory_group_2:
            design: example_2
```

`ezdesign` defines templates for your sites, so remember to add them before continuing.

### Add templates configuration

Add thumbnails and names for your templates in `config/packages/ez_platform_site_factory.yaml`
It will connect SiteAccesses with the templates.

```yaml
ezplatform_site_factory:
    templates:
        ez_site1:
            siteaccess_group: example_site_factory_group_1
            name: example_site_1
            thumbnail: /path/to/image/example-thumbnail_1.png
        ez_site2:
            siteaccess_group: example_site_factory_group_2
            name: example_site_2
            thumbnail: /path/to/image/example-thumbnail_2.png
```

You can check the results of your work in the Back Office by going to the **Site** tab.
There, you should be able to add a new site and choose a design for it.

### Define domains 

To be able to see your site online you need to define a domain for it.

!!! caution "Define domain for production environment"

>     This steps are for `dev` environment only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    These steps are for `dev` environment only.
```

    If you want to define domains in production environment, you will need to configure Apache or Nginx by yourself.

> In `.env` file change line 2 to: `COMPOSE_FILE=doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `.env` file change line 2 to: `COMPOSE_FILE=doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml`
```

    networks:
      frontend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com
      backend:
        aliases:
          - site.example.com
          - admin.example.com
          - test.example.com

```

Next, you must define the domains in `etc/hosts`.

```bash
0.0.0.0 site.example.com admin.example.com test.example.com www.admin.example.com
```

Then run `docker-compose up`: 

```bash
export COMPOSE_FILE="doc/docker/base-dev.yml:doc/docker/multihost.yml"
docker-compose up
```       

Your sites should be now visible under:

```
http://site.example.com:8080/
http://admin.example.com:8080/
http://localhost:8080/
http://test.example.com:8080/
```

![Site Factory site list](img/site_factory_site_list.png)

## Disable Site Factory

Enabled Site Factory may cause following performance issues:

- Config Resolver will look for SiteAccesses in the database
- Site Factory matchers will be connected to the database in search for new SiteAccesses

You can disable Site Factory to boost Config Resolver performance.

> Keep in mind that with disabled Site Factory you will not be able to add new sites or use existing sites.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that with disabled Site Factory you will not be able to add new sites or use existing ones.
```
